docs/sdk/index.md, before:

# SDK Reference

CryptoServe provides client SDKs with embedded identity for zero-configuration encryption.

## Available SDKs

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-language-python:{ .lg .middle } **Python SDK**

    ---

    Full-featured SDK for Python 3.8+

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Python SDK](python.md)

-   :material-language-typescript:{ .lg .middle } **TypeScript SDK** *(Coming Soon)*

    ---

    Type-safe SDK for Node.js and browsers - in development

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: TypeScript SDK](typescript.md)

-   :material-code-braces:{ .lg .middle } **Examples**

    ---

    Code examples for common use cases

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Examples](examples.md)

</div>

## SDK Architecture

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph SDK["SDK Package"]
        Config["Embedded Config"]
        Client["HTTP Client"]
        Crypto["Crypto Methods"]
    end

    subgraph App["Your Application"]
        Code["Your Code"]
    end

    subgraph Server["CryptoServe Server"]
        API["API"]
    end

    Code --> Crypto
    Crypto --> Client
    Client --> API
    Config --> Client
```

## Key Features

### Zero Configuration

Auto-registration with a one-time login:

```python
from cryptoserve import CryptoServe

# One-time: cryptoserve login
crypto = CryptoServe(app_name="my-app", team="platform")

# Encrypt with zero config!
encrypted = crypto.encrypt_string("secret", context="user-pii")
```

### Automatic Token Management

The SDK handles:

- Token refresh before expiration
- Retry on transient failures
- Connection pooling

### Type Safety

Full type hints for IDE support:

```python
from cryptoserve import CryptoServe
from cryptoserve.types import EncryptResult

crypto = CryptoServe(app_name="my-app", team="platform")

result: EncryptResult = crypto.encrypt_string("data", context="pii")
# IDE knows: result.ciphertext, result.algorithm, result.key_id
```

## How It Works

### 1. Identity Embedding

When you download an SDK, your identity configuration is embedded:

```python
# Inside the SDK package
_CONFIG = {
    "identity_id": "id_abc123",
    "server_url": "https://api.cryptoserve.io",
    "public_key": "...",
    "private_key_encrypted": "...",
}
```

### 2. Token Generation

The SDK generates JWTs signed with your Ed25519 private key:

```python
# Automatic - you don't need to do this
token = jwt.encode(
    {"sub": identity_id, "exp": now + 3600},
    private_key,
    algorithm="EdDSA"
)
```

### 3. API Calls

The SDK makes authenticated API calls:

```python
# Also automatic
response = requests.post(
    f"{server_url}/v1/crypto/encrypt",
    headers={"Authorization": f"Bearer {token}"},
    json={"plaintext": base64_data, "context": context}
)
```

## Installation

Each identity gets a unique download URL:

```bash
# From the dashboard, copy your install command
pip install http://localhost:8001/sdk/download/YOUR_TOKEN/python
```

The download token is single-use and expires after 1 hour.

## SDK vs Direct API

| Feature | SDK | Direct API |
|---------|-----|------------|
| Configuration | Zero | Manual JWT setup |
| Token management | Automatic | Manual refresh |
| Type safety | Full | None |
| Offline mode | Planned | No |
| Bundle size | ~50KB | N/A |

## Security

### Private Key Storage

The SDK's private key is encrypted at rest:

```python
# Decrypted only when needed for signing
private_key = decrypt_key(
    encrypted_key,
    derive_key_from_env()  # Uses machine-specific entropy
)
```

### Token Lifecycle

- Access tokens: 1 hour lifetime
- Automatic refresh at 50% lifetime
- Refresh tokens: 30 days (stored securely)

### Network Security

- All traffic over TLS 1.2+
- Certificate pinning (optional)
- Request signing for integrity

## Troubleshooting

??? question "SDK installation fails"

    Ensure the download URL hasn't expired:
    ```bash
    # Get a new download URL from the dashboard
    ```

??? question "Authentication errors"

    The identity may have been revoked:
    ```bash
    # Check identity status in dashboard
    ```

??? question "Context not authorized"

    Your identity may not have access to this context:
    ```python
    # Check allowed contexts
    print(crypto.get_identity_info()["contexts"])
    ```

??? question "Connection timeouts"

    Configure timeout and retry:
    ```python
    crypto.configure(
        timeout=30,
        max_retries=3
    )
    ```

Commit message:

docs: update all documentation to reflect current platform state
- Fix port references throughout docs (8001→8003, 3001→3003)
- Update SDK install instructions to use PyPI (pip install cryptoserve)
- Update Python version requirement to 3.9+ (was 3.8+ or 3.10+)
- Add SDK v1.0.0/v1.0.1 release entries to changelogs
- Add usage hints and context parameter to SDK method docs
- Fix decrypt method signatures to include required context param

docs/sdk/index.md, after:

# SDK Reference

CryptoServe provides client SDKs with embedded identity for zero-configuration encryption.

## Available SDKs

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-language-python:{ .lg .middle } **Python SDK**

    ---

    Full-featured SDK for Python 3.9+ — available on [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/cryptoserve/)

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Python SDK](python.md)

-   :material-language-typescript:{ .lg .middle } **TypeScript SDK** *(Coming Soon)*

    ---

    Type-safe SDK for Node.js and browsers - in development

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: TypeScript SDK](typescript.md)

-   :material-code-braces:{ .lg .middle } **Examples**

    ---

    Code examples for common use cases

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Examples](examples.md)

</div>

## SDK Architecture

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph SDK["SDK Package"]
        Config["Embedded Config"]
        Client["HTTP Client"]
        Crypto["Crypto Methods"]
    end

    subgraph App["Your Application"]
        Code["Your Code"]
    end

    subgraph Server["CryptoServe Server"]
        API["API"]
    end

    Code --> Crypto
    Crypto --> Client
    Client --> API
    Config --> Client
```

## Key Features

### Zero Configuration

Auto-registration with a one-time login:

```python
from cryptoserve import CryptoServe

# One-time: cryptoserve login
crypto = CryptoServe(app_name="my-app", team="platform")

# Encrypt with zero config!
encrypted = crypto.encrypt_string("secret", context="user-pii")
```

### Automatic Token Management

The SDK handles:

- Token refresh before expiration
- Retry on transient failures
- Connection pooling

### Type Safety

Full type hints for IDE support:

```python
from cryptoserve import CryptoServe
from cryptoserve.types import EncryptResult

crypto = CryptoServe(app_name="my-app", team="platform")

result: EncryptResult = crypto.encrypt_string("data", context="pii")
# IDE knows: result.ciphertext, result.algorithm, result.key_id
```

## How It Works

### 1. Identity Embedding

When you download an SDK, your identity configuration is embedded:

```python
# Inside the SDK package
_CONFIG = {
    "identity_id": "id_abc123",
    "server_url": "https://api.cryptoserve.io",
    "public_key": "...",
    "private_key_encrypted": "...",
}
```

### 2. Token Generation

The SDK generates JWTs signed with your Ed25519 private key:

```python
# Automatic - you don't need to do this
token = jwt.encode(
    {"sub": identity_id, "exp": now + 3600},
    private_key,
    algorithm="EdDSA"
)
```

### 3. API Calls

The SDK makes authenticated API calls:

```python
# Also automatic
response = requests.post(
    f"{server_url}/v1/crypto/encrypt",
    headers={"Authorization": f"Bearer {token}"},
    json={"plaintext": base64_data, "context": context}
)
```

## Installation

Install from PyPI:

```bash
pip install cryptoserve
```

Or download a pre-configured SDK from the dashboard:

```bash
# From the dashboard, copy your install command
pip install http://localhost:8003/sdk/download/YOUR_TOKEN/python
```

## SDK vs Direct API

| Feature | SDK | Direct API |
|---------|-----|------------|
| Configuration | Zero | Manual JWT setup |
| Token management | Automatic | Manual refresh |
| Type safety | Full | None |
| Offline mode | Planned | No |
| Bundle size | ~50KB | N/A |

## Security

### Private Key Storage

The SDK's private key is encrypted at rest:

```python
# Decrypted only when needed for signing
private_key = decrypt_key(
    encrypted_key,
    derive_key_from_env()  # Uses machine-specific entropy
)
```

### Token Lifecycle

- Access tokens: 1 hour lifetime
- Automatic refresh at 50% lifetime
- Refresh tokens: 30 days (stored securely)

### Network Security

- All traffic over TLS 1.2+
- Certificate pinning (optional)
- Request signing for integrity

## Troubleshooting

??? question "SDK installation fails"

    Ensure the download URL hasn't expired:
    ```bash
    # Get a new download URL from the dashboard
    ```

??? question "Authentication errors"

    The identity may have been revoked:
    ```bash
    # Check identity status in dashboard
    ```

??? question "Context not authorized"

    Your identity may not have access to this context:
    ```python
    # Check allowed contexts
    print(crypto.get_identity_info()["contexts"])
    ```

??? question "Connection timeouts"

    Configure timeout and retry:
    ```python
    crypto.configure(
        timeout=30,
        max_retries=3
    )
    ```
